\section{Implementation of a Verifier}

\subsection{Verificatum Mix Network}

The Verificatum mix-net is a reencryption mix-net based on the El
Gamal cryptosystem \cite[p.~1]{wikstrom1}. During execution it
generates a verifiable proof of correctness.

VMN has different types of execution, all of which require different
verification. There is a shuffle session, a decryption session and a
mixing session, producing different types of proofs. However, the
proofs for the mixing session consists of a shuffle and decryption
proof. The details on how to verify these different proofs is
described in the document \cite{wikstrom1} by Wikström. We have
evaluated this document in order to provide feedback to its author.

\subsection{Specification}

The document \cite{wikstrom1} describing a verifier for correct
execution of VMN contains detailed instructions for the
implementation. A number of subtasks are described, some of which may
be implemented independently. The subtasks include implementation of
general representation of data, an arithmetic library needed to
perform group operations, the cryptographic primitives and the
structure of files created during an execution of the
mixnet. Furthermore, all algorithms executed during the verification
are described in detail in order to allow an independent verifier.

\subsection{General Design Choices}

The first implementation choice was what programming language to
use. We wanted to use well established technologies and have good
performance of the verifier. Considering these criteria and our
programming skills, the choice was made between C, C++ and Java. Since
other groups are working on implementations in Java we decided to use
C or C++ and since we wanted to use features such as operator
overloading and some OOP, we settled on C++.

The program consists of a few different parts. To represent the
various mathematical objects in the calculations, we created a
collection of classes called a \emph{byte tree}. These store group
elements and a few other types of data as specified in the
documentation.

We wanted to keep the verifier as close to the specification in layout
as possible. The byte trees were modelled with a few classes
representing nodes and leaves. This enabled us to hide away complex
operations behind simple interfaces which resulted in a more readable
and maintainable code throughout the rest of the verifier.

\subsection{Tools}

We developed the program on two different platforms. The code was kept
in a git repository and hosted on GitHub. One of the development
platforms used OS X 10.8 with Emacs and g++ 4.7. The other used
Windows 8 with Visual Studio 2012. We generated reference documents
for the program with Doxygen.

\subsection{Third Party Libraries}

The verifier makes use of a few third party libraries. The actual
arithmetic in the byte tree nodes are done with the GMP arithmetic
library. This enables us to handle arbitrary large numbers which are
used in cryptography. Furthermore, RapidXML is used for parsing the
protInfo.xml file at the very beginning of the verifier. The
cryptographic hash functions are based on OpenSSL and unit testing of
our code was performed by using the Google Test library.

\subsubsection{Arithmetic Library}

For the actual arithmetics done in the byte tree classes we use the
GNU Multi-Precision Library (GMP). On Windows this is replaced by the
library Multiple Precision Integers and Rationals (MPIR), a drop in
replacement which is easier to compile on Windows systems. GMP was
chosen because it is a well known, stable and free library for bignum
operations.

\subsubsection{XML Parser}

RapidXML is used to parse the protInfo.xml file in the beginning of
the algorithm. Since this is a very simple operation only performed
once, a lightweight and simple library was sought for. RapidXML
fulfills these criteria. It consists of a few header files and has an
easy to use interface.

\subsubsection{Cryptographic Primitives}

All of the PRGs and ROs in the verifier are implemented in the
verifier but at the core they all depend on cryptographic hash
functions such as the SHA-2 family. We take these functions from the
OpenSSL library. OpenSSL is a well known, stable and free library for
various cryptographic related functions.

\subsubsection{Testing}

To test the byte tree classes and our cryptographic functions unit
testing was done. We used Google Test as our unit test framework
because it was simple and easy to use. The unit tests were invaluable
in tracking down subtle bugs in the byte tree implementation,
especially regarding memory management.

\subsection{Math Library - The Byte Tree}

To facilitate for the various calculations that needs to be done with
various mathematical objects, we created the byte tree classes. The
classes, that use the GMP library internally, wrap these operations
in a class hierarchy which enables us to create arrays and trees and
perform calculations with these compound structures. There are also
functions to import strings and files and convert them into these
classes. The classes can also be serialized into arrays and strings
which are used for testing and debugging purposes.

\subsection{Pseudorandom Generators and Random Oracles}

The specification also provides details on the PRG:s and RO:s used in
Verificatum. These primitives are implemented as classes which are
instantiated to perform their respective operations as described
earlier. These classes use hash functions from the OpenSSL library
internally to perform the hashing part.

\subsection{Verifier}

To keep track of some data which is persistent throughout the
execution, we created a structure to hold this data. This structure
was created at the beginning of the execution and then passed around
to the different algorithms.

Apart from the byte tree classes and the cryptographic primitives, we
needed a few helper functions. The purpose of these functions was to
check that some different byte tree adhered to a certain structure.

Each named algorithm in the specification was implemented as its own
function. The functions became long but since little code was repeated
and the possibilities for isolated testing was minimal, we chose to
not split up the algorithms into several functions.

\subsection{Testing and Debugging}

For the byte tree, PRG and RO classes, a small collection of unit
tests were created. The tests for the PRG and RO classes were taken
from the test vectors chapter in the specification while we created
the test cases for the byte tree classes. The tests were implemented
with the Google Test framework.

When all the parts of the program had been implemented we received
test data from Wikström to verify that the program worked. The data
contained two small instances with all the input files required by a
normal run of the verifier. Additionally the test data contained the
correct state of key variables throughout important steps of the
execution. The debugging was done in Visual Studio. By stepping
through the program and comparing states against the test data we
removed bugs in the program.
