\section{Introduction}



The area of cryptography concerns the theory of secure
communication. For this to have any meaning we must define
"secure". This is not easy since the most strict definition is not
practically feasible and is thus done on a case to case basis
depending on the context.

Originally cryptography was interchangeable with the encryption of
messages in order to allow secret communication between two parties
over an insecure channel. Early examples include various ciphers such
as the Caesar and the Vigenère ciphers. These primitive systems
achieve the most central property of a cryptographic system,
\emph{confidentiality}, i.e. only parties in possession of the key can
encrypt and decrypt the message. This is also an example of a
\emph{symmetric encryption} which means that the same piece of
information, the key, is used for encryption and decryption.

One problem that arises when only confidentiality is considered is
that even though a third party cannot read the message, it can be
modified without the receiver noticing. One way to counter this is to
introduce some kind of "receipt" computed from the message and sent
along with the ciphertext. This receipt computed again by the receiver
to verify that the message is unaltered. This property is what we call
\emph{integrity}.

In 1976 Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman publiced the first paper
on \emph{public key cryptography}. This was a new sort of
cryptographic construction that allowed different keys to be used for
encryption and decryption of a message. It was the first
\emph{asymmetric encryption} scheme.

Already at this point we have a very powerful set of tools for secret
communication. However, one thing which is not covered by traditional
public key cryptography is \emph{anonymity}. By design, two
communicating parties must have some kind of knowledge of each other
to be able to communicate. 

A cryptographic construction, called a mix network or mix-net,
facilitates the anonymity requirement by routing messages to a cluster
of nodes. These nodes takes a number of messages from any number of
sources, shuffles them around and deliver them to their
destination. This description is very brief, partly because there are
different flavours of mix-net intended for different purposes.

\subsection{Background}

The Verificatum mix-net is designed to take a number of encrypted
messages, ciphertexts. The ciphertexts have been encrypted with a
public key from the mix-net and are shuffled around and eventually
decrypted. This can, for example, be used in an election. Every voter
encrypts a vote with the public key and posts it to the mix-net. The
mix-net takes all the encrypted votes, shuffles and decrypts
them. This way all votes become visible and possible to count without
revealing information about which vote belongs to which voter - 
an important property in elections.

Additionally we would like to be able to verify that the mix-net has
done its work correctly and not altered any votes. Therefore the
mix-net produces some extra data files during its execution. These
data files together with the input ciphertexts and the output
plaintexts can be run through a verification process that tells if the
process has been correctly performed. The neat thing about all this is
that it can securely tell whether this is true or false without
spilling any more information about the relation between the
ciphertexts and the plaintexts, i.e. voter anonymity is preserved.

\subsection{Goals and Scope}

The idea is that any third party that wants to check the result should
be able to implement a verifier for Verificatum. Wikström has
published a document describing this verifier. We have, using this
document, implemented a verifier to test that the document is complete
with all the information needed for the implementation. Because of
time constraints, we have limited ourselves to implement a working
prototype with only the most common options available, just sufficient
to confirm that the specification contain all the necessary parts to
implement a verifier. This prototype could later be expanded to
facilitate for all features of the Verificatum mix-net.
